% -*- TeX-master: "main"; fill-column: 72 -*-

\section{Validation of SBML documents}
\label{apdx-validation}

\subsection{Validation and consistency rules}
\label{validation-rules}

This section summarizes all the conditions that must (or in some cases,
at least \emph{should}) be true of an SBML Level~3 Version~1 model that
uses the \SpatialProcessesPackage. We use the same conventions as are
used in the SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core specification document. In
particular, there are different degrees of rule strictness. Formally,
the differences are expressed in the statement of a rule: either a rule
states that a condition \emph{must} be true, or a rule states that it
\emph{should} be true. Rules of the former kind are strict SBML
validation rules---a model encoded in SBML must conform to all of them
in order to be considered valid. Rules of the latter kind are
consistency rules. To help highlight these differences, we use the
following three symbols next to the rule numbers:

\begin{description}

\item[\hspace*{6.5pt}\vSymbol\vsp] A \vSymbolName indicates a
\emph{requirement} for SBML conformance. If a model does not follow this
rule, it does not conform to the \SpatialProcessesPackage specification.
(Mnemonic intention behind the choice of symbol: ``This must be
checked.'')

\item[\hspace*{6.5pt}\cSymbol\csp] A \cSymbolName indicates a
\emph{recommendation} for model consistency. If a model does not follow
this rule, it is not considered strictly invalid as far as the
\SpatialProcessesPackage specification is concerned; however, it
indicates that the model contains a physical or conceptual
inconsistency. (Mnemonic intention behind the choice of symbol: ``This
is a cause for warning.'')

\item[\hspace*{6.5pt}\mSymbol\msp] A \mSymbolName indicates a strong
recommendation for good modeling practice. This rule is not strictly a
matter of SBML encoding, but the recommendation comes from logical
reasoning. As in the previous case, if a model does not follow this
rule, it is not strictly considered an invalid SBML encoding. (Mnemonic
intention behind the choice of symbol: ``You're a star if you heed
this.'')

\end{description}

The validation rules listed in the following subsections are all stated
or implied in the rest of this specification document. They are
enumerated here for convenience. Unless explicitly stated, all
validation rules concern objects and attributes specifically defined in
the \SpatialProcessesPackage package.

For \notice convenience and brevity, we use the shorthand
``\token{spatial:\-x}'' to stand for an attribute or element name
\token{x} in the namespace for the \SpatialProcessesPackage package,
using the namespace prefix \token{spatial}. In reality, the prefix
string may be different from the literal ``\token{spatial}'' used here
(and indeed, it can be any valid XML namespace prefix that the modeler
or software chooses). We use ``\token{spatial:\-x}'' because it is
shorter than to write a full explanation everywhere we refer to an
attribute or element in the \SpatialProcessesPackage namespace.

\subsubsection*{General rules about this package}

\validRule{spatial-10101}{To conform to the \SpatialProcessesPackage
specification for SBML Level~3 Version~1, an SBML document must declare
\uri{http://www.sbml.org/sbml/level3/version1/spatial/version1} as the
XMLNamespace to use for elements of this package. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1
\sec{xml-namespace}.)}

\validRule{spatial-10102}{Wherever they appear in an SBML document,
elements and attributes from the \SpatialProcessesPackage must use the
\uri{http://www.sbml.org/sbml/level3/version1/spatial/version1}
namespace, declaring so either explicitly or implicitly. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1
\sec{xml-namespace}.)}

\subsubsection*{General rules about identifiers}

\validRule{spatial-10301}{(Extends validation rule \#10301 in the
\sbmlthreecore specification. TO DO list scope of ids) (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.1.7.)}

\validRule{spatial-10302}{The value of a \token{spatial:\-id} must
conform to the syntax of the \class{SBML} data type \primtype{SId}
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.1.7.)}

\TODO{ANY LIST OF ELEMENTS THAT HAVE ATTRIBUTES}

\subsubsection*{Rules for the extended \class{SBML} class}

\validRule{spatial-20101}{In all SBML documents using the
\SpatialProcessesPackage, the \class{SBML} object must have the
\token{spatial:\-required} attribute. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1
Core, Section~4.1.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-20102}{The value of attribute
\token{spatial:\-required} on the \class{SBML} object must be of data
type \primtype{boolean}. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~4.1.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-20103}{The value of attribute
\token{spatial:\-required} on the \class{SBML} object must be set to
\val{true}. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1 \sec{xml-namespace}.)}

\subsubsection*{Rules for extended \class{Model} object}

\validRule{spatial-20201}{A \Model object may contain one and only one
instance of the \Geometry element. No other elements from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a \Model object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{extended-model-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for extended \class{Compartment} object}

\validRule{spatial-20301}{A \Compartment object may contain one and only
one instance of the \CompartmentMapping element. No other elements from
the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\Compartment object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{extended-compartment-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for extended \class{Species} object}

\validRule{spatial-20401}{A \Species object may have the optional
attribute \token{spatial:\-isSpatial}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a \Species object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{extended-species-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-20402}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-isSpatial} on a
\Species must have a value of data type \token{boolean}. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{extended-species-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for extended \class{Parameter} object}

\validRule{spatial-20501}{A \Parameter object may contain one and only
one instance of each of the \SpatialSymbolReference,
\AdvectionCoefficient, \BoundaryCondition and \DiffusionCoefficient
elements. No other elements from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes
namespaces are permitted on a \Parameter object. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{extended-parameter-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for extended \class{Reaction} object}

\validRule{spatial-20601}{A \Reaction object must have the required
attribute \token{spatial:\-isLocal}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a \Reaction
object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes,
Version~1, \sec{extended-reaction-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-20602}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-isLocal} on a
\Reaction must have a value of data type \token{boolean}. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{extended-reaction-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{DomainType} object}

\validRule{spatial-20701}{A \DomainType object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \DomainType. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-20702}{A \DomainType object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\DomainType. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-20703}{A \DomainType object must have the required
attributes \token{spatial:\-id} and \token{spatial:\-spatialDimensions}.
No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces
are permitted on a \DomainType object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{domaintype-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-20704}{The attribute
\token{spatial:\-spatialDimensions} on a \DomainType must have a value
of data type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{domaintype-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Domain} object}

\validRule{spatial-20801}{A \Domain object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Domain. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-20802}{A \Domain object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Domain.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-20803}{A \Domain object must have the required
attributes \token{spatial:\-id} and \token{spatial:\-domainType}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \Domain object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification
for Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{domain-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-20804}{A \Domain object may contain one and only one
instance of the \ListOfInteriorPoints element. No other elements from
the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a \Domain
object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes,
Version~1, \sec{domain-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-20805}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-domainType} of a \Domain object must be the identifier
of an existing \DomainType object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes,
Version~1, \sec{domain-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-20806}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfInteriorPoints
container object may only contain \InteriorPoint objects. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofinteriorpoints-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-20807}{A \ListOfInteriorPoints object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfInteriorPoints object. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofinteriorpoints-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{InteriorPoint} object}

\validRule{spatial-20901}{An \InteriorPoint object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
an \InteriorPoint. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-20902}{An \InteriorPoint object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\InteriorPoint. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-20903}{An \InteriorPoint object must have the
required attribute \token{spatial:\-coordOne}, and may have the optional
attributes \token{spatial:\-coordTwo} and \token{spatial:\-coordThree}.
No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces
are permitted on an \InteriorPoint object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{interiorpoint-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-20904}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-coordOne} on an
\InteriorPoint must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{interiorpoint-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-20905}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-coordTwo} on an
\InteriorPoint must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{interiorpoint-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-20906}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-coordThree} on
an \InteriorPoint must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{interiorpoint-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Boundary} object}

\validRule{spatial-21001}{A \Boundary object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Boundary. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21002}{A \Boundary object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Boundary.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21003}{A \Boundary object must have the required
attributes \token{spatial:\-id} and \token{spatial:\-value}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \Boundary object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification
for Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{boundary-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21004}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-value} on a
\Boundary must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{boundary-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{AdjacentDomains} object}

\validRule{spatial-21101}{An \AdjacentDomains object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on an \AdjacentDomains. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21102}{An \AdjacentDomains object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\AdjacentDomains. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21103}{An \AdjacentDomains object must have the
required attributes \token{spatial:\-id}, \token{spatial:\-domainOne}
and \token{spatial:\-domainTwo}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on an
\AdjacentDomains object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{adjacentdomains-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21104}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-domainOne} of an \AdjacentDomains object must be the
identifier of an existing \Domain object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes,
Version~1, \sec{adjacentdomains-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21105}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-domainTwo} of an \AdjacentDomains object must be the
identifier of an existing \Domain object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes,
Version~1, \sec{adjacentdomains-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{GeometryDefinition} object}

\validRule{spatial-21201}{A \GeometryDefinition object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \GeometryDefinition. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21202}{A \GeometryDefinition object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\GeometryDefinition. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21203}{A \GeometryDefinition object must have the
required attributes \token{spatial:\-id} and \token{spatial:\-isActive}.
No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces
are permitted on a \GeometryDefinition object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{geometrydefinition-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21204}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-isActive} on a
\GeometryDefinition must have a value of data type \token{boolean}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{geometrydefinition-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CompartmentMapping} object}

\validRule{spatial-21301}{A \CompartmentMapping object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \CompartmentMapping. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21302}{A \CompartmentMapping object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\CompartmentMapping. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21303}{A \CompartmentMapping object must have the
required attributes \token{spatial:\-id}, \token{spatial:\-domainType}
and \token{spatial:\-unitSize}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\CompartmentMapping object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{compartmentmapping-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21304}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-domainType} of a \CompartmentMapping object must be the
identifier of an existing \DomainType object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{compartmentmapping-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21305}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-unitSize} on a
\CompartmentMapping must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{compartmentmapping-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CoordinateComponent} object}

\validRule{spatial-21401}{A \CoordinateComponent object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \CoordinateComponent. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21402}{A \CoordinateComponent object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\CoordinateComponent. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21403}{A \CoordinateComponent object must have the
required attributes \token{spatial:\-id} and \token{spatial:\-type}, and
may have the optional attribute \token{spatial:\-unit}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \CoordinateComponent object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{coordinatecomponent-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21404}{A \CoordinateComponent object must contain one
and only one instance of each of the Boundary and \Boundary elements. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \CoordinateComponent object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{coordinatecomponent-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21405}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-type} of a \CoordinateComponent object must conform to
the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{CoordinateKind} and may only take
on the allowed values of \primtype{CoordinateKind} defined in SBML; that
is, the value must be one of the following: \val{cartesianX},
\val{cartesianY} or \val{cartesianZ}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{coordinatecomponent-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21406}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-unit} on a \CoordinateComponent must have a taken from
the following: the identifier of a \UnitDefinition object in the
enclosing \Model, or one of the base units in SBML. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{coordinatecomponent-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{SampledFieldGeometry} object}

\validRule{spatial-21501}{A \SampledFieldGeometry object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \SampledFieldGeometry. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21502}{A \SampledFieldGeometry object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\SampledFieldGeometry. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21503}{A \SampledFieldGeometry object must have the
required attribute \token{spatial:\-sampledField}. No other attributes
from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\SampledFieldGeometry object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{sampledfieldgeometry-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21504}{A \SampledFieldGeometry object may contain one
and only one instance of the \ListOfSampledVolumes element. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \SampledFieldGeometry object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledfieldgeometry-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21505}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-sampledField} of a \SampledFieldGeometry object must be
the identifier of an existing \SampledField object defined in the
enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{sampledfieldgeometry-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21506}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfSampledVolumes
container object may only contain \SampledVolume objects. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofsampledvolumes-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21507}{A \ListOfSampledVolumes object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfSampledVolumes object. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofsampledvolumes-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{SampledField} object}

\validRule{spatial-21601}{A \SampledField object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \SampledField. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21602}{A \SampledField object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\SampledField. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21603}{A \SampledField object must have the required
attributes \token{spatial:\-id}, \token{spatial:\-dataType},
\token{spatial:\-numSamplesOne}, \token{spatial:\-interpolationType},
\token{spatial:\-compression}, \token{spatial:\-samples} and
\token{spatial:\-samplesLength}, and may have the optional attributes
\token{spatial:\-numSamplesTwo} and \token{spatial:\-numSamplesThree}.
No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces
are permitted on a \SampledField object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledfield-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21604}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-dataType} of a \SampledField object must conform to the
syntax of SBML data type \primtype{DataKind} and may only take on the
allowed values of \primtype{DataKind} defined in SBML; that is, the
value must be one of the following: \val{double}, \val{float},
\val{uint8}, \val{uint16} or \val{uint32}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledfield-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21605}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-numSamplesOne}
on a \SampledField must have a value of data type \token{integer}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledfield-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21606}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-interpolationType} of a \SampledField object must
conform to the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{InterpolationKind} and
may only take on the allowed values of \primtype{InterpolationKind}
defined in SBML; that is, the value must be one of the following:
\val{nearestNeighbor} or \val{linear}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledfield-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21607}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-compression} of a \SampledField object must conform to
the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{CompressionKind} and may only
take on the allowed values of \primtype{CompressionKind} defined in
SBML; that is, the value must be one of the following:
\val{uncompressed} or \val{deflated}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledfield-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21608}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-samples} of a \SampledField object must be an array of
values of type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification
for Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{sampledfield-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21609}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-samplesLength}
on a \SampledField must have a value of data type \token{integer}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledfield-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21610}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-numSamplesTwo}
on a \SampledField must have a value of data type \token{integer}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledfield-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21611}{The attribute
\token{spatial:\-numSamplesThree} on a \SampledField must have a value
of data type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{sampledfield-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{SampledVolume} object}

\validRule{spatial-21701}{A \SampledVolume object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \SampledVolume. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21702}{A \SampledVolume object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\SampledVolume. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21703}{A \SampledVolume object must have the required
attributes \token{spatial:\-id}, \token{spatial:\-domainType} and
\token{spatial:\-sampledValue}, and may have the optional attributes
\token{spatial:\-minValue} and \token{spatial:\-maxValue}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \SampledVolume object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledvolume-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21704}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-domainType} of a \SampledVolume object must be the
identifier of an existing \DomainType object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{sampledvolume-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21705}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-sampledValue}
on a \SampledVolume must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledvolume-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21706}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-minValue} on a
\SampledVolume must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledvolume-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21707}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-maxValue} on a
\SampledVolume must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{sampledvolume-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{AnalyticGeometry} object}

\validRule{spatial-21801}{An \AnalyticGeometry object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on an \AnalyticGeometry. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21802}{An \AnalyticGeometry object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\AnalyticGeometry. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21803}{An \AnalyticGeometry object may contain one
and only one instance of the \ListOfAnalyticVolumes element. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on an \AnalyticGeometry object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{analyticgeometry-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21804}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfAnalyticVolumes
container object may only contain \AnalyticVolume objects. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofanalyticvolumes-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21805}{A \ListOfAnalyticVolumes object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfAnalyticVolumes object. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofanalyticvolumes-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{AnalyticVolume} object}

\validRule{spatial-21901}{An \AnalyticVolume object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on an \AnalyticVolume. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21902}{An \AnalyticVolume object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\AnalyticVolume. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-21903}{An \AnalyticVolume object must have the
required attributes \token{spatial:\-id}, \token{spatial:\-functionType}
and \token{spatial:\-domainType}, and may have the optional attribute
\token{spatial:\-ordinal}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3
Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on an \AnalyticVolume object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{analyticvolume-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21904}{An \AnalyticVolume object may contain one and
only one instance of the ASTNode element. No other elements from the
SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on an
\AnalyticVolume object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{analyticvolume-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21905}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-functionType} of an \AnalyticVolume object must conform
to the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{FunctionKind} and may only
take on the allowed values of \primtype{FunctionKind} defined in SBML;
that is, the value must be one of the following: \val{layered}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{analyticvolume-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21906}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-domainType} of an \AnalyticVolume object must be the
identifier of an existing \DomainType object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{analyticvolume-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-21907}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-ordinal} on an
\AnalyticVolume must have a value of data type \token{integer}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{analyticvolume-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{ParametricGeometry} object}

\validRule{spatial-22001}{A \ParametricGeometry object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ParametricGeometry. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22002}{A \ParametricGeometry object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\ParametricGeometry. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22003}{A \ParametricGeometry object may contain one
and only one instance of each of the SpatialPoints and
\ListOfParametricObjects elements. No other elements from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\ParametricGeometry object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{parametricgeometry-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22004}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfParametricObjects
container object may only contain \ParametricObject objects. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofparametricobjects-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22005}{A \ListOfParametricObjects object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfParametricObjects object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofparametricobjects-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{ParametricObject} object}

\validRule{spatial-22101}{A \ParametricObject object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ParametricObject. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22102}{A \ParametricObject object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\ParametricObject. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22103}{A \ParametricObject object must have the
required attributes \token{spatial:\-id}, \token{spatial:\-polygonType},
\token{spatial:\-domainType}, \token{spatial:\-pointIndex},
\token{spatial:\-pointIndexLength} and \token{spatial:\-compression},
and may have the optional attribute \token{spatial:\-dataType}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \ParametricObject object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{parametricobject-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22104}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-polygonType} of a \ParametricObject object must conform
to the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{PolygonKind} and may only take
on the allowed values of \primtype{PolygonKind} defined in SBML; that
is, the value must be one of the following: \val{triangle} or
\val{quadrilateral}. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{parametricobject-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22105}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-domainType} of a \ParametricObject object must be the
identifier of an existing \DomainType object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{parametricobject-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22106}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-pointIndex} of a \ParametricObject object must be an
array of values of type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{parametricobject-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22107}{The attribute
\token{spatial:\-pointIndexLength} on a \ParametricObject must have a
value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{parametricobject-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22108}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-compression} of a \ParametricObject object must conform
to the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{CompressionKind} and may only
take on the allowed values of \primtype{CompressionKind} defined in
SBML; that is, the value must be one of the following:
\val{uncompressed} or \val{deflated}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{parametricobject-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22109}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-dataType} of a \ParametricObject object must conform to
the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{DataKind} and may only take on
the allowed values of \primtype{DataKind} defined in SBML; that is, the
value must be one of the following: \val{double}, \val{float},
\val{uint8}, \val{uint16} or \val{uint32}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{parametricobject-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CSGeometry} object}

\validRule{spatial-22201}{A \CSGeometry object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \CSGeometry. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22202}{A \CSGeometry object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGeometry. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22203}{A \CSGeometry object may contain one and only
one instance of the \ListOfCSGObjects element. No other elements from
the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGeometry object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{csgeometry-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22204}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfCSGObjects container
object may only contain \CSGObject objects. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofcsgobjects-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22205}{A \ListOfCSGObjects object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfCSGObjects object. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofcsgobjects-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CSGObject} object}

\validRule{spatial-22301}{A \CSGObject object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGObject. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22302}{A \CSGObject object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \CSGObject.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22303}{A \CSGObject object must have the required
attributes \token{spatial:\-id} and \token{spatial:\-domainType}, and
may have the optional attribute \token{spatial:\-ordinal}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \CSGObject object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification
for Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{csgobject-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22304}{A \CSGObject object must contain one and only
one instance of the CSGNode element. No other elements from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a \CSGObject
object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes,
Version~1, \sec{csgobject-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22305}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-domainType} of a \CSGObject object must be the
identifier of an existing \DomainType object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{csgobject-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22306}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-ordinal} on a
\CSGObject must have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgobject-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CSGNode} object}

\validRule{spatial-22401}{A \CSGNode object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGNode. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22402}{A \CSGNode object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \CSGNode.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22403}{A \CSGNode object may have the optional
attribute \token{spatial:\-id}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a \CSGNode object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgnode-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CSGTransformation} object}

\validRule{spatial-22501}{A \CSGTransformation object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \CSGTransformation. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22502}{A \CSGTransformation object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGTransformation. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22503}{A \CSGTransformation object may contain one
and only one instance of the CSGNode element. No other elements from the
SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGTransformation object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{csgtransformation-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CSGTranslation} object}

\validRule{spatial-22601}{A \CSGTranslation object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \CSGTranslation. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22602}{A \CSGTranslation object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGTranslation. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22603}{A \CSGTranslation object must have the
required attribute \token{spatial:\-translateX}, and may have the
optional attributes \token{spatial:\-translateY} and
\token{spatial:\-translateZ}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3
Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a \CSGTranslation object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgtranslation-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22604}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-translateX} on
a \CSGTranslation must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgtranslation-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22605}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-translateY} on
a \CSGTranslation must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgtranslation-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22606}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-translateZ} on
a \CSGTranslation must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgtranslation-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CSGRotation} object}

\validRule{spatial-22701}{A \CSGRotation object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \CSGRotation. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22702}{A \CSGRotation object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGRotation. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22703}{A \CSGRotation object must have the required
attributes \token{spatial:\-rotateX} and
\token{spatial:\-rotateAngleInRadians}, and may have the optional
attributes \token{spatial:\-rotateY} and \token{spatial:\-rotateZ}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \CSGRotation object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgrotation-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22704}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-rotateX} on a
\CSGRotation must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgrotation-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22705}{The attribute
\token{spatial:\-rotateAngleInRadians} on a \CSGRotation must have a
value of data type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgrotation-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22706}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-rotateY} on a
\CSGRotation must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgrotation-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22707}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-rotateZ} on a
\CSGRotation must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgrotation-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CSGScale} object}

\validRule{spatial-22801}{A \CSGScale object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGScale. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22802}{A \CSGScale object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \CSGScale.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22803}{A \CSGScale object must have the required
attribute \token{spatial:\-scaleX}, and may have the optional attributes
\token{spatial:\-scaleY} and \token{spatial:\-scaleZ}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \CSGScale object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification
for Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{csgscale-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22804}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-scaleX} on a
\CSGScale must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgscale-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22805}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-scaleY} on a
\CSGScale must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgscale-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-22806}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-scaleZ} on a
\CSGScale must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgscale-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CSGHomogeneousTransformation} object}

\validRule{spatial-22901}{A \CSGHomogeneousTransformation object may
have the optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \CSGHomogeneousTransformation. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22902}{A \CSGHomogeneousTransformation object may
have the optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and
annotations. No other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are
permitted on a \CSGHomogeneousTransformation. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-22903}{A \CSGHomogeneousTransformation object must
contain one and only one instance of each of the TransformationComponent
and \TransformationComponent elements. No other elements from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGHomogeneousTransformation object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csghomogeneoustransformation-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{TransformationComponent} object}

\validRule{spatial-23001}{A \TransformationComponent object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \TransformationComponent. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23002}{A \TransformationComponent object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\TransformationComponent. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23003}{A \TransformationComponent object must have
the required attributes \token{spatial:\-components} and
\token{spatial:\-componentsLength}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\TransformationComponent object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification
for Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{transformationcomponent-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23004}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-components} of a \TransformationComponent object must
be an array of values of type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{transformationcomponent-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23005}{The attribute
\token{spatial:\-componentsLength} on a \TransformationComponent must
have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{transformationcomponent-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CSGPrimitive} object}

\validRule{spatial-23101}{A \CSGPrimitive object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \CSGPrimitive. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23102}{A \CSGPrimitive object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGPrimitive. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23103}{A \CSGPrimitive object must have the required
attribute \token{spatial:\-primitiveType}. No other attributes from the
SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGPrimitive object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{csgprimitive-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23104}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-primitiveType} of a \CSGPrimitive object must conform
to the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{PrimitiveKind} and may only
take on the allowed values of \primtype{PrimitiveKind} defined in SBML;
that is, the value must be one of the following: \val{sphere},
\val{cube}, \val{cylinder}, \val{cone}, \val{circle} or \val{square}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgprimitive-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{CSGSetOperator} object}

\validRule{spatial-23201}{A \CSGSetOperator object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \CSGSetOperator. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23202}{A \CSGSetOperator object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGSetOperator. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23203}{A \CSGSetOperator object must have the
required attribute \token{spatial:\-operationType}, and may have the
optional attributes \token{spatial:\-complementA} and
\token{spatial:\-complementB}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3
Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a \CSGSetOperator object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgsetoperator-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23204}{A \CSGSetOperator object may contain one and
only one instance of the \ListOfCSGNodes element. No other elements from
the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\CSGSetOperator object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{csgsetoperator-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23205}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-operationType} of a \CSGSetOperator object must conform
to the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{SetOperation} and may only
take on the allowed values of \primtype{SetOperation} defined in SBML;
that is, the value must be one of the following: \val{union},
\val{intersection} or \val{relativeComplement}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{csgsetoperator-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23206}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-complementA} of a \CSGSetOperator object must be the
identifier of an existing \CSGNode object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{csgsetoperator-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23207}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-complementB} of a \CSGSetOperator object must be the
identifier of an existing \CSGNode object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{csgsetoperator-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23208}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfCSGNodes container
object may only contain \CSGNode objects. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofcsgnodes-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23209}{A \ListOfCSGNodes object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfCSGNodes object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{listofcsgnodes-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{SpatialSymbolReference} object}

\validRule{spatial-23301}{A \SpatialSymbolReference object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \SpatialSymbolReference. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23302}{A \SpatialSymbolReference object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\SpatialSymbolReference. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23303}{A \SpatialSymbolReference object must have the
required attribute \token{spatial:\-spatialRef}. No other attributes
from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\SpatialSymbolReference object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification
for Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{spatialsymbolreference-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23304}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-spatialRef} of a \SpatialSymbolReference object must be
the identifier of an existing \Geometry object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{spatialsymbolreference-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{DiffusionCoefficient} object}

\validRule{spatial-23401}{A \DiffusionCoefficient object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \DiffusionCoefficient. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23402}{A \DiffusionCoefficient object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\DiffusionCoefficient. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23403}{A \DiffusionCoefficient object must have the
required attributes \token{spatial:\-variable} and
\token{spatial:\-type}, and may have the optional attributes
\token{spatial:\-coordinateReferenceOne} and
\token{spatial:\-coordinateReferenceTwo}. No other attributes from the
SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\DiffusionCoefficient object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{diffusioncoefficient-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23404}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-variable} of a \DiffusionCoefficient object must be the
identifier of an existing \Species object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{diffusioncoefficient-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23405}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-type} of a \DiffusionCoefficient object must conform to
the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{DiffusionKind} and may only take
on the allowed values of \primtype{DiffusionKind} defined in SBML; that
is, the value must be one of the following: \val{isotropic},
\val{anisotropic} or \val{tensor}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{diffusioncoefficient-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23406}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-coordinateReferenceOne} of a \DiffusionCoefficient
object must conform to the syntax of SBML data type
\primtype{CoordinateKind} and may only take on the allowed values of
\primtype{CoordinateKind} defined in SBML; that is, the value must be
one of the following: \val{cartesianX}, \val{cartesianY} or
\val{cartesianZ}. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{diffusioncoefficient-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23407}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-coordinateReferenceTwo} of a \DiffusionCoefficient
object must conform to the syntax of SBML data type
\primtype{CoordinateKind} and may only take on the allowed values of
\primtype{CoordinateKind} defined in SBML; that is, the value must be
one of the following: \val{cartesianX}, \val{cartesianY} or
\val{cartesianZ}. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{diffusioncoefficient-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{AdvectionCoefficient} object}

\validRule{spatial-23501}{An \AdvectionCoefficient object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on an \AdvectionCoefficient. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23502}{An \AdvectionCoefficient object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\AdvectionCoefficient. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23503}{An \AdvectionCoefficient object must have the
required attributes \token{spatial:\-variable} and
\token{spatial:\-coordinate}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3
Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on an \AdvectionCoefficient
object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes,
Version~1, \sec{advectioncoefficient-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23504}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-variable} of an \AdvectionCoefficient object must be
the identifier of an existing \Species object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{advectioncoefficient-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23505}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-coordinate} of an \AdvectionCoefficient object must
conform to the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{CoordinateKind} and
may only take on the allowed values of \primtype{CoordinateKind} defined
in SBML; that is, the value must be one of the following:
\val{cartesianX}, \val{cartesianY} or \val{cartesianZ}. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{advectioncoefficient-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{BoundaryCondition} object}

\validRule{spatial-23601}{A \BoundaryCondition object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \BoundaryCondition. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23602}{A \BoundaryCondition object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\BoundaryCondition. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23603}{A \BoundaryCondition object must have the
required attributes \token{spatial:\-variable} and
\token{spatial:\-type}, and may have the optional attributes
\token{spatial:\-coordinateBoundary} and
\token{spatial:\-boundaryDomainType}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a
\BoundaryCondition object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{boundarycondition-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23604}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-variable} of a \BoundaryCondition object must be the
identifier of an existing \Species object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial
Processes, Version~1, \sec{boundarycondition-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23605}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-type} of a \BoundaryCondition object must conform to
the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{BoundaryConditionKind} and may
only take on the allowed values of \primtype{BoundaryConditionKind}
defined in SBML; that is, the value must be one of the following:
\val{Robin_valueCoefficient},
\val{Robin_inwardNormalGradientCoefficient}, \val{Robin_sum},
\val{Neumann} or \val{Dirichlet}. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification
for Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{boundarycondition-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23606}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-coordinateBoundary} of a \BoundaryCondition object must
be the identifier of an existing \Boundary object defined in the
enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{boundarycondition-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23607}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-boundaryDomainType} of a \BoundaryCondition object must
be the identifier of an existing \DomainType object defined in the
enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{boundarycondition-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Geometry} object}

\validRule{spatial-23701}{A \Geometry object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Geometry. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23702}{A \Geometry object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Geometry.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23703}{A \Geometry object must have the required
attribute \token{spatial:\-coordinateSystem}, and may have the optional
attribute \token{spatial:\-id}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a \Geometry
object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes,
Version~1, \sec{geometry-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23704}{A \Geometry object may contain one and only
one instance of each of the \ListOfCoordinateComponents,
\ListOfDomainTypes, \ListOfDomains, \ListOfAdjacentDomains,
\ListOfGeometryDefinitions and \ListOfSampledFields elements. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \Geometry object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification
for Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{geometry-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23705}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-coordinateSystem} of a \Geometry object must conform to
the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{GeometryKind} and may only take
on the allowed values of \primtype{GeometryKind} defined in SBML; that
is, the value must be one of the following: \val{cartesian}. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{geometry-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23706}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfCoordinateComponents
container object may only contain \CoordinateComponent objects.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofcoordinatecomponents-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23707}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfDomainTypes container
object may only contain \DomainType objects. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofdomaintypes-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23708}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfDomains container
object may only contain \Domain objects. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofdomains-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23709}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfAdjacentDomains
container object may only contain \AdjacentDomains objects. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofadjacentdomains-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23710}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfGeometryDefinitions
container object may only contain \GeometryDefinition objects.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofgeometrydefinitions-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23711}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfSampledFields
container object may only contain \SampledField objects. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofsampledfields-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23712}{A \ListOfCoordinateComponents object may have
the optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfCoordinateComponents object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofcoordinatecomponents-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23713}{A \ListOfDomainTypes object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfDomainTypes object. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofdomaintypes-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23714}{A \ListOfDomains object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfDomains object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{listofdomains-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23715}{A \ListOfAdjacentDomains object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfAdjacentDomains object. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofadjacentdomains-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23716}{A \ListOfGeometryDefinitions object may have
the optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfGeometryDefinitions object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofgeometrydefinitions-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23717}{A \ListOfSampledFields object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfSampledFields object. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofsampledfields-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{MixedGeometry} object}

\validRule{spatial-23801}{A \MixedGeometry object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \MixedGeometry. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23802}{A \MixedGeometry object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\MixedGeometry. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23803}{A \MixedGeometry object may contain one and
only one instance of each of the \ListOfGeometryDefinitions and
\ListOfOrdinalMappings elements. No other elements from the SBML Level~3
Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on a \MixedGeometry object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{mixedgeometry-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23804}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfGeometryDefinitions
container object may only contain \GeometryDefinition objects.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofgeometrydefinitions-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23805}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfOrdinalMappings
container object may only contain \OrdinalMapping objects. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofordinalmappings-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23806}{A \ListOfGeometryDefinitions object may have
the optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfGeometryDefinitions object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofgeometrydefinitions-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23807}{A \ListOfOrdinalMappings object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfOrdinalMappings object. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{listofordinalmappings-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{OrdinalMapping} object}

\validRule{spatial-23901}{An \OrdinalMapping object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on an \OrdinalMapping. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23902}{An \OrdinalMapping object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\OrdinalMapping. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-23903}{An \OrdinalMapping object must have the
required attributes \token{spatial:\-geometryDefinition} and
\token{spatial:\-ordinal}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3
Spatial Processes namespaces are permitted on an \OrdinalMapping object.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{ordinalmapping-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23904}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-geometryDefinition} of an \OrdinalMapping object must
be the identifier of an existing \GeometryDefinition object defined in
the enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{ordinalmapping-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-23905}{The attribute \token{spatial:\-ordinal} on an
\OrdinalMapping must have a value of data type \token{integer}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{ordinalmapping-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{SpatialPoints} object}

\validRule{spatial-24001}{A \SpatialPoints object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \SpatialPoints. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-24002}{A \SpatialPoints object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\SpatialPoints. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{spatial-24003}{A \SpatialPoints object must have the required
attributes \token{spatial:\-id}, \token{spatial:\-compression},
\token{spatial:\-arrayData} and \token{spatial:\-arrayDataLength}, and
may have the optional attribute \token{spatial:\-dataType}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Spatial Processes namespaces are
permitted on a \SpatialPoints object. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{spatialpoints-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-24004}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-compression} of a \SpatialPoints object must conform to
the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{CompressionKind} and may only
take on the allowed values of \primtype{CompressionKind} defined in
SBML; that is, the value must be one of the following:
\val{uncompressed} or \val{deflated}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{spatialpoints-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-24005}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-arrayData} of a \SpatialPoints object must be an array
of values of type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification
for Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{spatialpoints-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-24006}{The attribute
\token{spatial:\-arrayDataLength} on a \SpatialPoints must have a value
of data type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Specification for
Spatial Processes, Version~1, \sec{spatialpoints-class}.)}

\validRule{spatial-24007}{The value of the attribute
\token{spatial:\-dataType} of a \SpatialPoints object must conform to
the syntax of SBML data type \primtype{DataKind} and may only take on
the allowed values of \primtype{DataKind} defined in SBML; that is, the
value must be one of the following: \val{double}, \val{float},
\val{uint8}, \val{uint16} or \val{uint32}. (Reference: SBML Level~3
Specification for Spatial Processes, Version~1,
\sec{spatialpoints-class}.)}


